>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Talking about testing
is kind of like flossing your teeth or
taking vitamins.
We philosophically agree
that we should do this, but
somehow it just gets de-prioritized.
Even internally as I wanna
go talk about Firebase, and
this module is staring at me.
But we're gonna do it, and so
we'll do the testing module.
And from here, then it's just really
all just fun and games after this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Actually,
let me just back this up real quick.
I wanna pull up one slide to just
frame how we're going to discuss this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
has anybody ever heard the saying,
make it work, make it right, make it fast?
So pretty common saying,
I think if you Googled it,
I don't remember off the top
of my head who said it.
But I think this is a pretty good
approach for being effective.
That I've been on projects
where people were so
enamored with just building this
perfect thing right out of the gate.
So they spent hours and hours and hours
and days and days and days and days and
days and months planning the thing.
And at the end of this you
know huge planning cycle
they had nothing to show for it.
And more importantly,
if you have an opportunity to go
read a book like The Lean Startup.
Is how do you even know what
you're building is even something
that the users want?
And so
I've seen tons of projects where you
think this is it they're gonna love it.
And the user just does not get it and so
I think it's incredibly important to have
something that works as soon as possible.
And so this is why I really
like the saying make it work,
make it right, make it fast.
Cuz I think the first thing you
need to do is make something work.
So that you can get it in front
of the people that matter and
start to get feedback.
And so
I'm not saying throw caution to the wind.
It doesn't matter how we program
cuz we're making it work.
Good software principles still apply.
But there is a level of variability and
just the dynamic
nature of what you're doing, that you
have to be open to feedback loops.
And willing to change, and
the faster you get something
in place to get that feedback loop,
the better off you're going to be.
So first things first,
is just making something work.
And a lot of times that means
it should be working, it's not.
And so for this,
we're going to talk about testing.
I find the majority of what I
do is I spent 20% writing code.
And 80% fixing it and
figuring out what went wrong.
And so being able to write test
gives you the ability to know
with reasonable certainty
that something works.
So if somebody says, well,
how do you know that this works?
Well, it hasn't broken yet
is not a good response.
Because to that end,
I would say you probably should go
read Black Swanby Nassim Taleb.
And just pray that this
doesn't happen to you.
I don't think the Equifax people or
whatever,
it hasn't broken, but
when it does [SOUND].
So to that end, it hasn't broken yet
is not a good response for
how do you know it works?
This is why we have test, to the best
of our ability to make assertions
that pieces in our code are working.
And from there, once you validate
that this is the right thing.
Then you can go through and
start to make it right.
Cuz there's just going to
be things that you miss.
There's going to be pieces that just
didn't get put together as tight as
possible.
And so
even over the course of these branches,
if you started going through
as I'm cutting them.
There are just things that are progressing
that even from branch 00 start to the last
branch that I've cut in this repo.
I've started to make small improvement
just by virtue of being in there.
And so finding ways to get good feedback
on your code that is a mechanism.
So again this is all feedback loops.
Is having a mechanism to tell
you what is not right, so
that you can make it right or
what is suboptimal.
So this is where static
analysis is really, really key.
And this is something that is
kind of new to JavaScript.
So for Java and C# and different things,
you have things like SonarQube and
a bunch of different things.
That does phenomenal esthetics
analysis of different things.
And they say this is bad or
good or whatever.
We're starting to see this in our tooling.
And so I'm pretty excited to show this.
Because there's actually very
little we need to do from
a kind of a setup standpoint to
get good feedback on our code.
And then from there, once you have
something working, and it's right.
Well, then you can focus
on making it fast.
And start to say, well how do we
start to improve the performance?
And, interestingly enough,
by talking about these three things,
we're pretty much going to
cover how to make it live.
So that's kind of the next piece.
You build this thing,
what do you do with it?
Where do you put it?
Because especially in JavaScript,
that because it's not
a truly compiled language.
So we essentially compile it down to ES5.
But it's not like we're
getting an executable.
The deployment is just a little different
in terms of what you develop in.
Is definitely not what you wanna
put on a production server.
And so there's this gap here of
this is what we're working with.
But we're ready to actually
deploy this for consumption.
What do we do and what's that step?
So I'll talk about that, as well.
So let's hop in with this, make it work,
make it right, make it fast arc.
Let's go ahead and jump in and see this.